Minimum supported Cardano node versions for Mithril signers (#1624)
input-output-hk/mithril: docs/runbook/maintain-cardano-min-versions-file/README.md

Reviewer: The runbook should also be listed in the https://github.com/input-output-hk/mithril/blob/main/docs/runbook/README.md file.

Reviewer: Can you add a sentence in the doc to check that the JSON is well formed when it is modified (and the associated command)?

Author: As we discussed, I added a job in the CI to check the conformity of the JSON file.

#  Cardano minimum versions for Signers

## Introduction

The [cardano-min-versions.json](../../../cardano-min-versions.json) file, which specifies the minimum supported versions of the Cardano node for Mithril signers
This ensures compatibility and functionality across different networks.

## Maintaining the file

When a new a new Cardano node version is released:

> - Verify the Cardano node compatibility with Mithril nodes, especially through the CI process.

Reviewer: This is not very clear:
- the process to check compatibility is to create a PR with the new version of the node tested in the `devnet` with the CI e2e test
- then 2 cases:
  - compatible without modification on Mithril nodes (in that case bump versions right away)
  - or modifications required by the Mithril team (in that case bump version after new distribution is released)

Author: Done but I'd like your opinion again please 🙏.

- Depending on the network:
    - For the stable networks `preview`, `preprod`, and `mainnet`: the minimum supported `cardano-node` version must be updated to be two stable releases behind the current release version.

>     - For the unstable network `sanchonet`: given its current evolving nature, the minimum supported `cardano-node` version may vary from the stable one.

Reviewer: This could be summarized in a table for more clarity

Author: Done ✅

#  Cardano node minimum versions for Signers

## Introduction

> The [networks.json](../../../networks.json) file, which specifies the minimum supported versions of the Cardano node for Mithril signers and facilitates the verification of compatibility for the Cardano networks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [networks.json](../../../networks.json) file specifies the minimum supported versions of the Cardano node for Mithril signers and facilitates the verification of compatibility for the Cardano networks.
```

> The [cardano-min-versions.json](../../../cardano-min-versions.json) file, which specifies the minimum supported versions of the Cardano node for Mithril signers and facilitates the verification of compatibility for the Cardano networks.

Reviewer: This should be updated with `networks.json`

Author: Done ✅

> #  Cardano minimum versions for Signers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#  Cardano node minimum versions for Signers
```

Author: Done ✅

## Introduction

> The [cardano-min-versions.json](../../../cardano-min-versions.json) file, which specifies the minimum supported versions of the Cardano node for Mithril signers
> This ensures compatibility and functionality across different networks.

Reviewer: This sentence is not correctly formulated 🤔
```suggestion
The [cardano-min-versions.json](../../../cardano-min-versions.json) file specifies the minimum supported versions of the Cardano node for Mithril signers
and facilitates the verification of compatibility for the Cardano networks.
```

## Maintaining the file

> To maintain compatibility when a new Cardano node version is released, follow these steps:

Reviewer: To remove IMO

Author: Done ✅

> ### Test for compatibility:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Assessment of compatibility:
```

Author: Done ✅

> - Create a pull request to test the new Cardano node version in the devnet using CI end-to-end tests.

Reviewer: Can you explain the modifications to do in detail?

Author: You are talking steps?:
- update the default value of the `cardano_node_version` clap argument in e2e
- update `CARDANO_NODE_VERSION` argument in the Aggregator and Signer Dockerfiles
- update of the `e2e` job in the `ci.yml` file (adding the new cardano node version in the list of tested environments)

Reviewer: Yes, but the most important is the last one which we use to test compatibility :+1:

Author: Done ✅

- Assess the compatibility:

>     - **Compatible without modification**: if Mithril nodes are compatible without any modification, bump the versions right away.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Compatible without modification**: in that case Mithril nodes are compatible without modification and versions can be bumped immediately.
```

Author: Done ✅

>     - **Modifications are required by the Mithril team**: in that case bump the versions after the necessary modifications are implemented and a new distribution is released.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Modifications are required by the Mithril team**: in that case the versions can be bumped after the necessary modifications are implemented and a new distribution is released.
```

### Update policy by network:

> Depending on the network, the version must be updated as detailed in the following table:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are the recommended update policies by Cardano network:
```

Author: Done ✅

> | Network | Stability | Policy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Network | Status | Policy
```

|------------|------------|------------

> preview | stable | the minimum supported `cardano-node` version must be updated to be two stable releases behind the current release version.
> preprod | stable | the minimum supported `cardano-node` version must be updated to be two stable releases behind the current release version.
> mainnet | stable | the minimum supported `cardano-node` version must be updated to be two stable releases behind the current release version.
> sanchonet | unstable | given its current evolving nature, the minimum supported `cardano-node` version may vary from the stable one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`preview` | **stable** | the minimum supported Cardano node version should be two stable releases behind the current release version.
`preprod` | **stable** | the minimum supported Cardano node version should be two stable releases behind the current release version.
`mainnet | **stable** | the minimum supported Cardano node version should be two stable releases behind the current release version.
`sanchonet` | **unstable** | given the unstable status of the network, the minimum supported Cardano node version may vary from the stable one.
```

Author: Done ✅
